[core] add doc about customizing lro (#28892)
Azure/azure-sdk-for-python: sdk/core/azure-core/CLIENT_LIBRARY_DEVELOPER.md

| Key Vault ([example][kv_tenant_id]) | Request access in a tenant that was discovered as part of an authentication challenge

> ## Long-running operation (LRO) customization

Author: Laurent originally said to add it to the CLIENT_LIBRARY_DEVELOPER.md, but happy to move it if you think `doc/dev` makes more sense. I see there is a `customize_code` directory there, is that where you were thinking?

> ## Long-running operation (LRO) customization

Reviewer: I honestly didn't think much further than: "this seems pretty in-depth for the DEVELOPER.md file, which already covers a pretty broad range of topics". But I will differ to Laurent. We can always start with it here and move it to a dedicated doc file that we link to from here later.

> ## Long-running operation (LRO) customization

Author: I see what you're saying. The LRO doc somehow ended up being half the length of the whole DEVELOPER.md so I moved it to `doc/dev` and will add a link to the doc once it's merged.

>  API operations that can take longer to complete are often represented as long-running operations (LRO). `azure-core` provides `LROPoller` (and `AsyncLROPoller`) protocols

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 API operations that can take longer to complete are often represented as long-running operations (LRO). The `azure-core` library provides the `LROPoller` (and `AsyncLROPoller`) protocols
```

>  API operations that can take longer to complete are often represented as long-running operations (LRO). `azure-core` provides `LROPoller` (and `AsyncLROPoller`) protocols

Reviewer: Would this be a good spot to link to LROPoller ref docs?

>  that give users access to the LRO and expose methods to interact with them such as waiting until the operation reaches a terminal state, checking its status, or

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 that expose methods to interact with the LRO such as waiting until the operation reaches a terminal state, checking its status, or
```

 providing a callback to do work on the final result when it is ready. If the LRO follows the [Azure REST API guidelines](https://github.com/microsoft/api-guidelines/blob/vNext/azure/Guidelines.md#long-running-operations--jobs), 
 it's likely that the generated client library code should _just work_. 
 In cases where the LRO diverges from the guidelines, you may need to customize your code to achieve the desired scenario.

 There are 3 options to customize the logic for our LROs.

 1) [LRO algorithm/strategies - OperationResourcePolling, LocationPolling, StatusCheckPolling](#lro-algorithmstrategies---operationresourcepolling-locationpolling-statuscheckpolling)
    - You need to customize the polling strategy
 2) [Polling method - LROBasePolling/AsyncLROBasePolling](#polling-method---lrobasepollingasynclrobasepolling)
    - You need to customize the polling loop
 3) [Poller - LROPoller/AsyncLROPoller](#poller---lropollerasynclropoller)
    - You need to customize the public interface of the poller

### LRO algorithm/strategies - OperationResourcePolling, LocationPolling, StatusCheckPolling

> `azure.core.polling` provides three built-in strategies for polling - `OperationResourcePolling`, `LocationPolling`, and `StatusCheckPolling`.

Reviewer: Could these link to core reference docs? Or would that not be helpful?

The type of polling needed will be determined automatically, unless otherwise changed by the client library developer. If the LRO is determined
not to fit `OperationResourcePolling` or `LocationPolling`, `StatusCheckPolling` serves as a fallback strategy which will not perform polling, but

> instead return a successful response for a 2xx.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
instead return a successful response for a 2xx status code.
```

If you need to customize the polling strategy, choose a polling algorithm that closely represents what you need to do

> or create your own that inherits from `azure.core.polling.LongRunningOperation` and implements the necessary methods.

Reviewer: Ref docs? Would be helpful to be able to click through and see what those "necessary methods" might be.

For our purposes, let's say that `OperationResourcePolling` closely resembles what the service does, but we
need to account for a non-standard status.

> Example: Raise exception for a non-standard status that is returned via the initial POST call - "ValidationFailed".

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### Example: Raise exception for a non-standard status that is returned via the initial POST call - "ValidationFailed".
```

```python

> class CustomOperationResourcePolling(OperationResourcePolling):

Reviewer: Can we add the `import` statements to the snippets?

    """Implements a operation resource polling, typically from Operation-Location. Customized to raise an
    exception in the case of a "ValidationFailed" status returned from the service.

    :param str operation_location_header: Name of the header to return operation format (default 'operation-location')
    :keyword dict[str, any] lro_options: Additional options for LRO. For more information, see

>      https://aka.ms/azsdk/autorest/openapi/lro-options

Reviewer: Not sure if we need these params in the docstring, given that we don't overwrite the constructor?

    """

>     def get_status(self, pipeline_response: "PipelineResponseType") -> str:

Reviewer: Would it be generally recommended to call `super().get_status()` rather than duplicate some of this implementation?

Reviewer: Could we add a docstring to `get_status` to describe exactly how this method fits into the overall polling strategy and how it could/should be customized?
e.g. This method is called on the response for each polling request and is used to extract and return the LRO status from that response. In the case that the operation has failed (i.e. a non-successful status), an exception should be raised. This will bring polling to an end and raise the failure to the listener.

        response = pipeline_response.http_response
        if _is_empty(response):
            raise BadResponse("The response from long running operation does not contain a body.")

        body = _as_json(response)
        status = body.get("status")
        if not status:
            raise BadResponse("No status found in body")
        if status.lower() == "validationfailed":
            raise HttpResponseError(response=response, error=body["error"])
        return status
```

> To plug into a client method which was generated as an LRO, you can pass the `polling` keyword argument. The `polling`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can then wrap client method that was generated as an LRO, and pass the additional `polling` keyword argument. The `polling`
```

> keyword argument takes a `azure.core.polling.PollingMethod` and allows for a custom strategy to be passed in to the keyword

Reviewer: The snippet is demonstrating `LROBasePolling` rather than `PollingMethod` - so we might want to reconcile that, either by mentioning it here, or a comment in the snippet.

Reviewer: Ah, I see you explain that the bottom. Maybe then we could just update this line to make it clearer that we are referring here to a the PollingMethod protocol - maybe something like:
```suggestion
keyword argument takes an implementation of `azure.core.polling.PollingMethod` (e.g. `azure.core.polling.LROBasePolling`) and allows for a custom strategy to be passed in to the keyword
```
Could we also make `azure.core.polling.PollingMethod` a link to the reference docs?

argument `lro_algorithms`:

```python
class ServiceOperations:

>     def begin_analyze(self, data: AnyStr, name: str) -> LROPoller[JSON]:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    def begin_analyze(self, data: AnyStr, name: str, **kwargs) -> LROPoller[JSON]:
```

>         return self._client.begin_analyze(

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        return self._generated_client.begin_analyze(
```

            data,
            name,
            polling=LROBasePolling(
                lro_algorithms=[
                    CustomOperationResourcePolling()  # overrides other LRO strategies
                ]
            ),
            **kwargs
        )
```

> This example uses the default polling method - `LROBasePolling` and just overrides the algorithm used for polling.

Reviewer: I think we would benefit (probably at the beginning of this guide) a description of exactly what the relationship between the "polling strategy" and the "polling method" and the "poller" is.

If you need to control the polling loop, then see the next section.

### Polling method - LROBasePolling/AsyncLROBasePolling

Built-in methods for polling are included in `azure-core` as both sync / async variants - `LROBasePolling` and `AsyncLROBasePolling`.
You can also use `azure.core.polling.NoPolling` which will not initiate polling and simply return the 
deserialized initial response when called with `poller.result()`.

To use `NoPolling`, you can simply pass `polling=False` to an operation generated as an LRO:

```python
class ServiceOperations:

>     def begin_analyze(self, data: AnyStr, name: str) -> LROPoller[JSON]:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    def begin_analyze(self, data: AnyStr, name: str, **kwargs) -> LROPoller[JSON]:
```

>         return self._client.begin_analyze(

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        return self._generated_client.begin_analyze(
```

            data,
            name,
            polling=False,
            **kwargs
        )
```

> The polling method runs the polling loop and performs GET requests to the status monitor to check if a terminal state is reached. 

Reviewer: I feel like this description should be at the top of the section?

> In between polls it inserts delay based on the service sent `retry-after` header or the given `polling_interval`.

Reviewer: Which of these takes precedence?

> To customize parts of the polling method, you can create a subclass which uses `LROBasePolling` and overrides necessary methods.

Reviewer: Link to API ref? And on the line below.

If significant customization is necessary, use `azure.core.polling.PollingMethod` and implement all the necessary methods.

> Example: Create an LRO method which will poll for when a file gets uploaded successfully (greatly simplified)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### Example: Create an LRO method which will poll for when a file gets uploaded successfully (greatly simplified)
```

```python

> class CustomLROPolling(PollingMethod):

Reviewer: I think this demo class really needs more documentation. It's difficult to see where the points of customization are that would have needed a Custom class. A description of how each method in the API is used and what it needs to achieve and how those outcomes can be manipulated would be helpful.

Author: I added some docstrings / inline comments to explain what should be done in each method. Let me know if you think there's still room for improvement. :)

    def __init__(self, polling_interval=30, **kwargs) -> None:
        self._polling_interval = polling_interval
        self._resource = None
        self._finished = False
        self._status = "InProgress"
        self._kwargs = kwargs

>     def initialize(self, client, initial_response, deserialization_callback):

Reviewer: We could add type hints here? Also a more thorough docstring may be helpful

        """Set the initial status of this LRO.
        """ 
        self.client = client
        self.file_id = response.file_id

>         self._pipeline_response = self._initial_response = initial_response

Reviewer: We never use `self._pipeline_response`?
I also didn't think it was the pipeline response that was passed into the polling method? But I probably misremember...

Author: For standard LROs, it is a PipelineResponse that is passed in to initialize(...). We later use its `context` to restore the transport:
https://github.com/Azure/azure-sdk-for-python/blob/main/sdk/core/azure-core/azure/core/polling/base_polling.py#L461

But you're right that it's not used in this code and we actually pass the deserialized initial_response in the example... which is likely not pickle-able, nor does it have `context`. So I'll need to fix this.

    def status(self) -> str:
        """Return the current status as a string.

        :rtype: str
        """
        return "Succeeded" if self._finished else "InProgress"

    def finished(self) -> bool:
        """Is this polling finished?

        :rtype: bool
        """
        return self._finished

    def resource(self) -> JSON:
        """Return the built resource."""
        return self._resource

    def run(self) -> None:
        """The polling loop"""
        while not self.finished():
            try:
                self._resource = self._command()
                self._finished = True
            except ResourceNotFoundError:
                pass
            if not self.finished():
                time.sleep(self._polling_interval)

    def get_continuation_token(self) -> str:
        import pickle

        return base64.b64encode(pickle.dumps(self._initial_response)).decode("ascii")

    @classmethod
    def from_continuation_token(cls, continuation_token: str, **kwargs) -> Tuple[Any, Any, Callable]:
        try:
            client = kwargs["client"]
        except KeyError:

>             raise ValueError("Need kwarg 'client' to be recreated from continuation_token")

Reviewer: I would add some inline comments describing what we're trying to achieve here

        import pickle

        initial_response = pickle.loads(base64.b64decode(continuation_token))  # nosec
        # Restore the transport in the context
        initial_response.context.transport = client._client._pipeline._transport  # pylint: disable=protected-access
        return client, initial_response, lambda: None
```

And now, to plug into the client code:

```python
class ServiceOperations:

    def begin_upload(self, data: AnyStr, **kwargs) -> LROPoller[JSON]:

>         continuation_token = kwargs.pop("continuation_token", None)

Reviewer: Does this mean that a `continuation_token` kwarg is the official rehydration policy for LROs?
I know quite a few of our APIs do this today - just not sure we ever formalized it as a guideline.

Author: Discussed offline. TBD, but leaving it in the doc for now.

        polling_method = CustomLROBasePolling(**kwargs)
        if continuation_token is not None:
            return LROPoller.from_continuation_token(
                continuation_token=continuation_token,
                polling_method=polling_method,
                client=self
            )
        response = self._client.create_upload(data, **kwargs)

        return LROPoller(
            client=self,
            initial_response=response,

>             deserialization_callback=lambda: None,

Reviewer: A comment on what this is and how it's used (or not used in this case) would be useful.
Though I don't think this will actually work? I thought the callback took parameters?
And if it returns `None` here, isn't the response lost?

Author: Wasn't using it in the example, actually. Updated to show how to use it.

            polling_method=polling_method,
        )
```

Note that we need to account for a `continuation_token` being passed by the user, in which case we should not make the
initial call again, but rather resume polling from the rehydrated state.

### Poller - LROPoller/AsyncLROPoller

> The last option is if you need to customize the public interface of the `LROPoller` / `AsyncLROPoller`.

Reviewer: Maybe we could add something like:
Reasons to do this might include exposing important attributes or metadata of the operation in progress, or adding new features to interact with the operation, such as to pause/resume or cancel it.

> Example: I want to add a cancel method to my poller

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### Example: I want to add a cancel method to my poller
```

Note that if you support rehydration of the LRO via `continuation_token`, you must override the `from_continuation_token` 
method so that the custom poller is used.

```python
class CustomLROPoller(LROPoller[PollingReturnType]):

    def cancel(self, **kwargs) -> None:
        """Cancel the upload"""
        return self.polling_method().client.cancel_upload_file(self.polling_method().file_id, **kwargs)

    @classmethod
    def from_continuation_token(
        cls, polling_method: PollingMethod[PollingReturnType], continuation_token: str, **kwargs
    ) -> "CustomLROPoller[PollingReturnType]":
        (
            client,
            initial_response,
            deserialization_callback,
        ) = polling_method.from_continuation_token(continuation_token, **kwargs)
        return cls(client, initial_response, deserialization_callback, polling_method)

```

And now, to plug into the client code:

```python
class ServiceOperations:

>     def begin_upload(self, data: AnyStr, **kwargs) -> CustomLROPoller[JSON]:

Reviewer: Maybe add a note about the updated return type here - we should only need an explicitly type reference _if_ new public API has been added. And if that's the case, that new Poller object will need to be added to the package `__init__.py` so that the new public API will be properly documented.

 providing a callback to do work on the final result when it is ready. If the LRO follows the 
 [Azure REST API guidelines][rest_api_guidelines_lro], 
 it's likely that the generated client library code should _just work_. 
 In cases where the LRO diverges from the guidelines, you may need to customize your code to achieve the desired scenario.

 There are 3 options to customize the logic for LROs.

 1) [Polling strategy - OperationResourcePolling, LocationPolling, StatusCheckPolling](#polling-strategy---operationresourcepolling-locationpolling-statuscheckpolling)
    - You need to customize the polling strategy
 2) [Polling method - LROBasePolling/AsyncLROBasePolling](#polling-method---lrobasepollingasynclrobasepolling)
    - You need to customize the polling loop
 3) [Poller API - LROPoller/AsyncLROPoller](#poller-api---lropollerasynclropoller)
    - You need to customize the public interface of the poller

The poller API is what the user uses to interact with the LRO. Internally, the poller uses the polling method to run the polling
loop which makes calls to the status monitor, controls delay, and determines when the LRO has reached a terminal state.

> The polling method is supplied a polling strategy which defines where and how to the get the status from the status monitor.

Reviewer: Rather than "is supplied a", maybe just "uses"? e.g. something like:
`The "polling method" uses a "polling strategy" to determine how to extract the status information from the responses returned by the status monitoring.`

### Polling strategy - OperationResourcePolling, LocationPolling, StatusCheckPolling

> `azure.core.polling` provides three built-in strategies for polling -[OperationResourcePolling][operation_resource_polling],

Reviewer: The `azure.core.polling` module provides...

[LocationPolling][location_polling], and [StatusCheckPolling][status_check_polling]. The type of polling needed will be 
determined automatically using the response structure, unless otherwise specified by the client library developer. If 
the LRO is determined not to fit either `OperationResourcePolling` or `LocationPolling`, `StatusCheckPolling` serves as 
a fallback strategy which will not perform polling, but instead return a successful response for a 2xx status code.

If you need to customize the polling strategy, choose a polling algorithm that closely represents what you need to do
or create your own that inherits from [azure.core.polling.base_polling.LongRunningOperation][long_running_operation] 
and implements the necessary methods.

> For our purposes, let's say that `OperationResourcePolling` closely resembles what the service does, but we

Reviewer: "For our example"?

        return self._generated_client.begin_analyze(
            data,
            name,
            polling=False,
            **kwargs
        )
```

To customize parts of the polling method, you can create a subclass which uses [LROBasePolling][lro_base_polling] and overrides necessary methods.
If significant customization is necessary, use [azure.core.polling.PollingMethod][polling_method] 
(or [AsyncPollingMethod][async_polling_method])and implement all the necessary methods.

#### Example: Create an LRO method which will poll for when a file gets uploaded successfully (greatly simplified)

```python
import functools
import time
import base64
from typing import Any, Tuple, Callable, MutableMapping
from azure.core.pipeline import PipelineResponse
from azure.core.polling import PollingMethod
from azure.core.polling.base_polling import BadResponse
from azure.core.exceptions import ResourceNotFoundError
JSON = MutableMapping[str, Any]

class CustomLROPolling(PollingMethod):
    def __init__(self, polling_interval: float = 30, **kwargs: Any) -> None:
        """Creates a custom polling method which polls until a file is uploaded.

>         The operation is considered to have reached a terminal state once a successful GET

Reviewer: Maybe prefix this with:
"For this example, the operation is considered...."

        is done on the file (e.g. no ResourceNotFoundError is raised).

        :param polling_interval: The amount of time to wait between polls. This fictitious service does not
            use retry-after so we will default to this value.
        :param kwargs: Any operation-specific keyword arguments that should be passed into the GET call.
        """
        self._polling_interval = polling_interval
        self._kwargs = kwargs

    def initialize(self, client: Any, initial_response: PipelineResponse, deserialization_callback: Callable) -> None:
        """Set the initial status of this LRO, verify that we can poll, and 
        initialize anything necessary for polling.

        :param client: An instance of a client. In this example, the generated client.
        :param initial_response: In this example, the PipelineResponse returned from the initial call.

>         :param deserialization_callback: A callable to transform the final result before returning to the caller.

Reviewer: Does "caller" here mean the end user?

        """
        
        # verify we have the information to poll
        response = initial_response.http_response.json()
        if response.get("file_id", None) is None:
            raise BadResponse("No file_id in response.")

        # initialize
        self.client = client
        self.file_id = response["file_id"]
        self._initial_response = initial_response
        self._deserialization_callback = deserialization_callback
        self._resource = None
        self._finished = False
        
        # create the command which will be polled against as the status monitor
        self._command = functools.partial(self.client.get_upload_file, file_id=self.file_id, **self._kwargs)
        
        # set initial status
        self._status = "InProgress"

        
    def status(self) -> str:
        """Should return the current status as a string.

>         This is what is returned to the user when status() is called on the LROPoller.

Reviewer: Do we need to add a note as to whether/how this intertwines with the "polling strategy" for determining status section above?

Author: Your comment made me realize that it's probably not totally clear how the strategy plays in with the polling method... We kind of go from 0 to 100 fast. 😆 I added a simple strategy into the custom polling method example so that it hopefully ties in together better.

        This might include a deserialization callback (passed in initialize()) 
        to transform or customize the final result, if necessary.
        """
        return self._deserialization_callback(self._resource)

    def run(self) -> None:
        """The polling loop.
        
        The polling should call the status monitor, evaluate and set the current status, 
        insert delay between polls, and continue polling until a terminal state is reached.
        """
        while not self.finished():
            try:
                # calls the status monitor
                self._resource = self._command()
                # sets status
                self._finished = True
            except ResourceNotFoundError:
                pass
            if not self.finished():
                # inserts delay if not done
                time.sleep(self._polling_interval)

    def get_continuation_token(self) -> str:
        """Returns an opaque token which can be used by the user to rehydrate/restart the LRO.
        Saves the initial state of the LRO so that polling can be resumed from that context.

        .. code-block:: python

>             initial_poller = begin_upload(data)

Reviewer: Should these be `client.begin_upload`?
